[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The holistic world of healing
includes plants and herbs,
channeling energy as well as
both spiritual and physical
modalities.
Healers are
multi-dimensional beings
who dance between the realms
of the seen and unseen.
These individuals
have the ability
to facilitate a shift
in people, offering
them insight and support.
Reconnecting people with
themselves and the greater
collective.
Healing the world
one person at a time.
Healing from the other side.
>> I had a prophetic dream where
all four of my grandparents
came to me.
And my grandmother, who I was
closest to, stepped forward.
And she was just
this being of light.
And she said to me, if
you start meditating,
you will see the angels.
At that point, I was a very
strong agnostic atheist.
But I knew the power
of dreams and the power
of subconscious messages.
I had studied psychology
when I was much younger.
And I followed the message.
I sought out Reiki for myself.
And during a three-month
period called
AnattÄ it was like a
spiritual death and rebirth,
the vision came to
me to take on Reiki
and the healing
modalities myself.
And it progressed to the
point of life coaching
and hypnotherapy, where I
could bring all my modalities
together.
Evolution coach is a
broad term for someone
who helps people move through
their different phases of life,
different traumas or issues.
Even the opportunity
to evolve themselves,
to develop themselves
spiritually.
So the modalities that
I use, primarily it's
life coaching,
which pulls together
all the other modalities as
it creates a structure for you
to diagnose and identify
where the person needs help.
And from there, I
choose from the range
of modalities for them to use
for their particular session.
So we're going to today
probably be using Reiki
and hypnotherapy.
I do them in combination.
The Reiki is the channeling
of life force or life
energy into a person who
needs healing or just
development in a certain area.
And the hypnotherapy is very
similar to a guided meditation
where the person is taken
into a trance state.
And from there, I pass
on certain messages,
deliver certain messages
into the subconscious.
And it is messages
that they have chosen.
>> Hypnotherapy and Reiki are
healing techniques that have
been around for decades.
Reiki was developed
in the 1920s in Japan
as a spiritual practice.
And there are many references
to trance and hypnosis
in early writings.
Around the world,
more and more people
are opening up to alternative
healing methods and modalities,
looking for holistic ways
to approach their issues.
Turning to coaches
like Natalie to enhance
various areas of their lives and
start the process of healing.
>> For the evolution coaching,
the beginning of the session is
always talking to the client.
So that could take anything
from 30 minutes to an hour,
depending on how deep the
issue is residing within them.
Sometimes clients need a
little bit longer to open up.
And there's a number of
questions and techniques
that I can use to get to what
the core of the issue is.
We always want to be going
to what the cause is,
not to treat the symptoms.
And that is the
difference, I feel,
with the traditional modern
medicine and these more
holistic healing
modalities, is that we
go to what the core of the
issue is and start unraveling it
from there.
So once we've unraveled
that, then it's
a matter of choosing
which modality works.
So if there's a limiting
belief pattern going on,
then I will tend more towards
neurolinguistic programming,
where we will pick that apart.
If the person is struggling with
the decision making process,
for example, we'll do a
dissociative little process
with them.
Otherwise, if they
just need healing,
if there's difficulty or
pain, then definitely Reiki
hypnotherapy is where
I would move it.
So depending on the person,
each person has their own issues
and has their own unraveling
to do and healing to do.
And once I've got a better idea
of what's actually going on
for them, then it's easier to
choose a modality to go into.
Today, I'm going to be working
with a lady named Roulla.
I have not met her yet.
I'm going to talk to
her for a little while,
get an understanding of
actually what's going on.
Hopefully dig a
little deeper, see
if we can get to the
underlying issue there.
I feel that Reiki and
hypnotherapy will be the best
modality for today,
because it's really precise
and it's quite easy to focus
in on a particular issue.
And the results are
usually quite rapid.
So it's sort of
easy to actually see
a difference between the
before and the after.
So it's quite a powerful
modality to use.
>> Coming up on The Other
Side, we meet Roulla,
a woman struggling to
find energy, drive,
and purpose after two
years of being unemployed.
Join us as we follow her on
her journey to the other side.
>> There are things
I want to do.
Just not the drive to
get them done anymore.
I think maybe it's
energy that's gone.
>> Some people see spirituality
as a way to communicate with
lost loved ones or ancestors.
Others like Roulla see
it as an opportunity
to delve inwards and
reconnect with themselves.
To guide those open to
it back onto their path
and into the light.
>> Bit of an exciting day
for me today, actually.
I'm going to be meeting
up with Natalie.
She's got quite a range of
skills that are really, really
intriguing, to be honest.
I'm not good at
looking after myself.
I'm a bit of an ostrich.
I stick my head in the
sand and hope everything
goes away and sorts itself out.
So it's going to be, I think,
quite a good experience to see
what she thinks will help me.
It's been a tough
couple of years.
I haven't worked
since February 2020.
And of course, with
COVID kicking in,
I haven't been able to work.
I'm a travel agent.
I'm very pressure driven.
So the last two years have been
really strange in that there's
been no pressure at all.
I can't read anymore.
I used to be a
really big reader.
Six, seven books a week.
And I can't pick up a
book anymore, which is--
it's a frightening thing for me.
And honestly, motivation's gone.
There are a lot
of new interests.
Well, not new
interests, but things
that I've been delving
into in the last two years
that I haven't been able to.
I've worked pretty much
since I was 17 all the time.
Things have been tough
this year, so that would
be something that would be
amazing to walk away with,
is to rediscover my focus
and my energy, to be honest.
>> Hey, darling.
>> Yeah, hi.
>> Nice to meet you.
So you've come here today
for a healing session.
And yeah, just what is going on?
>> I was saying earlier that
I don't really focus on me.
So it's not as though I
have a specific something
that I want to work on.
There's a lot that's happened
in the last two years,
I'm sure, for everyone.
But I mean, I haven't
worked in nearly two years.
And I was saying I'm
really struggling.
I've had two years at home.
I haven't cleared a single room.
I know it needs to be done.
I have no, no inspiration.
No inkling to do it.
>> So when you say you
don't think about yourself,
you don't spend much
time on yourself,
what and who are you
spending your time on?
>> It used to be work, work,
work, work, work, work, work,
work, work, work, work.
A complete workaholic.
It's actually interesting
maybe that I'm not a workaholic
anymore.
I actually don't know
what to do with myself.
But yes, I've got kids.
I've got a 12-year-old and
a 7-year-old and hubby.
>> In terms of the home
dynamic, is it a typical
breadwinner/householder kind
of dynamic that you have
at the moment?
>> At the moment, yes.
It's actually
completely flipped over.
I did the stable job and he did
bits and pieces here and there.
So it's flipped on
its head with COVID.
>> So there's been space that
you've been given now to do
some exploration.
And you've gotten stuck in the
householding and the parenting
and all of that.
>> Yeah.
>> What's your feeling
about being like the typical
housewife mom at the moment?
>> Yeah I'm not
a house-y person.
No, not really.
I'll be honest.
I've never done the
housewife-y thing.
I'm not a girly girl.
>> So the last two years,
what have you been doing?
Because you've been at home,
you haven't been working.
>> I've been learning about
spiders and snakes and insects
and things I haven't
been able to do before.
>> And are you enjoying the
time that you're having now?
>> Yeah, I am.
>> You've been gifted.
It's not so much an issue.
It's like a gift of grace.
>> I feel guilty.
>> --time to be yourself.
>> I feel like I should
be doing other things.
>> OK, it sounds like
you've been given a window.
Like that space that
you've been given now,
you've not had that space
before to peek in and go, oh,
what do I actually like doing?
Because I'm sure
when you left school,
it was probably just like,
what am I going to study?
What am I going to do?
Have you ever had a time
of travel, of being alone,
of actually what
you've had now where
there's nothing to do except
for do what you feel like?
>> No.
I really haven't.
>> It's actually a magical
point where you get to go,
what do I actually want
to spend my days doing?
>> A little bit terrifying, too.
>> It can be terrifying.
You're in what we
would call a soup.
It's like it--
>> It feels like soup.
>> It's soup, yeah.
So it's like everything
mushed together.
You can't tell one
thing from the other.
It's like a developmental soup.
There's an easy route and
there's a difficult route
when you're in this state.
OK, so the difficulty is
like, I don't know what to do,
I'm so stressed.
I should be doing this,
I should be doing that.
Time's running out.
Blah, blah, blah.
But let's say you come up with
an idea of what you would do.
But someone else has been doing
this 20 years more than me,
and I don't know.
And that's facing the space
with a sense of fear and anxiety
that you're not doing what
you're supposed to be doing.
And then the easy
route is to go--
[SIGHS]
I've got all this time.
What am I going to do?
I've been gifted.
And you're delving
into the spirituality.
There's no mistakes, because
it's like starting again.
It's like starting
again, but with all the
wisdom that you've
gained through your life.
And because we are very
instant gratification,
we want that sense of,
what am I doing now?
Ooh, I got to be
doing a purpose now.
I've got to be
missioning right now.
But over your whole life,
if you think about it,
you've been very busy.
You've actually added a
lot of value to the world.
You know how healing it is for
someone to go on a holiday?
And if you were a
travel agent, you
are providing that
opportunity all the time.
How do you resonate
with all of that?
What does that
feel like for you?
>> It does.
It makes sense.
I--
[SIGHS]
I think it's trying to
figure out who I am now
without what I did before.
>> If you feel like there's
a message that you need
to receive from yourself,
what would it be?
[CHUCKLES]
>> I don't know.
You're making me cry now.
>> That's OK.
Because look at
what you're doing.
This is real.
This is serious.
This is real stuff.
This is shifting stuff.
We're shifting here.
The emotion is
purely the intensity
of how important this is.
It's actually great
that you're crying.
It's great.
Because then it's real.
Then we're actually
getting somewhere.
>> Maybe that I'm enough.
>> Do I need to
keep doing stuff?
Come here.
Crying is a great shift.
It means the
threshold of emotion--
there's a threshold
of higher emotions
on that we've pierced it now.
So that's the point of change.
Because emotions are fuel.
They're the fuel that we
use to guide our behavior
and give us energy to do it.
When you're excited
about something, ooh,
you're revved up.
When you're angry, you're
going to solve that thing.
You know what I'm saying?
So your emotions are your fuel.
So don't hold them.
Just let them go.
Just let them fill you
and guide you and get you
in those right directions.
Right, are you ready for
us to do our session?
>> I'm ready.
>> Yay.
I'm excited.
I'm excited for you.
Thank you for this.
>> Thank you.
>> Pleasure.
>> Coming up on The Other Side,
Natalie takes Roulla through
a guided meditation
and Reiki session,
enabling her to let go and
allow things on this new path
to unfold more organically.
[CHANTING]
>> You're going to begin by
just bringing your awareness
to your feet and just
feeling how relaxed they are.
Up through your belly,
relaxing everything.
A deep sleep of dreams.
A deep rest.
A deep adventure into
your imagination.
And begin this beautiful
journey inwards
by walking down some steps.
These steps are natural
steps, just made by the rocks.
Relax as you deep,
as you realize
that you are coming into
nature, your space of rest
and relaxation.
You are there.
You look around at
this mountain valley.
There is a familiar path that
you have traveled before.
And you begin on that path.
You look at the ground
as you're walking,
and the ground is so soft
that you can walk barefoot.
And you can feel the
earth and the stones
below you, and the
leaves, soft and cool.
And just allow yourself
to absorb the beauty.
Walking along the path,
you notice a familiar tree
that you've passed before.
And you look at its beauty
and you notice how it's grown.
How it's changed over time.
You continue along the path,
seeing more familiar scenes.
You continue up
the path, and it's
becoming steeper and steeper.
And you notice that it's
not as familiar as before.
But you're exhilarated.
Completely exhilarated,
because you
haven't seen this spot before.
You're now excited to see
how far this new path goes.
And there's some
new little creatures
you haven't seen before, some
beautiful, colorful insects
going along their business.
Each of them contributing to
the ecosystem in so many ways.
Some simple, simple tasks
they may be doing that
is affecting the whole forest.
And you take your final
step in the shade.
And you turn around and you
look over this beautiful forest
that you've just walked through.
You're looking at it
from above, feeling
grateful for that
journey that you've taken
on that path that's familiar.
And you realize you
merely need to be.
You are an extension of earth.
And now comes the exciting part.
You get to choose your
path down the mountain.
You've got a new path to follow.
And each time you step
into a little clearing,
you look around in awe.
Lush, flourishing,
thriving potential.
You merely need to give
yourself time to look at it,
to notice it, to absorb
it, and to realize
that you are part of it.
You've always been part of
life where you are alive.
You're going to leave the forest
now, making our way back home,
knowing that you can
return there at any point.
And knowing more
importantly that you
can follow any new path
and you will be gifted.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So the session
with Roulla, I was
trying to identify what was
going on in her past, what's
going on in her
present, and where she
wants to get to in the future.
She is in a phase
that a lot of us
have been in where we've
been given a bit more time
than we're used to having.
And so in that lack
of busyness, we're
now able to see certain things
that we don't resonate with
and certain things that
we are interested in.
And there are a lot of people
where they know now what
they don't want to do anymore,
but they're not quite sure
where to go to or what
to do next in their path,
in their career, and so on.
So she's definitely
one of those people
that's experiencing that.
So after that assessment,
I saw that she definitely
just needed some energy to
revitalize and rejuvenate her.
And then also the meandering
path hypnosis that I use,
which is to get someone feeling
comfortable through familiarity
and then move into the
excitement and the exhilaration
of taking on something new,
something unpredictable,
unexpected.
>> She really has a knack of
pulling up information that you
didn't really know
was lying in there.
I think I ended up in
tears at one point.
I do normally stick
my head in the sand
and hope things go
away on their own.
So this was quite a big step.
Putting myself out there
and letting people in.
And it does, it feels good.
And it does feel like I've
made a bit of progress.
The session itself was really
relaxing and reassuring.
Going forward, I
think she's helped
me to trust myself
a little bit more
and be less anxious about
what I think I should be doing
and more relaxed
with what I am doing.
Allowing that process to follow
through and organically evolve.
It really has not a hard
impact, a really gentle easing
into change.
I think the benefit of that is
so much more than everything
always having to be a
hard "I'm doing this now."
Giving myself the time
to do this session today,
it just opens up doors in the
mind to move things along.
So all in all, I think really
quite a wonderful experience,
really.
>> At the moment it's really
exciting being in the healing
arts.
Because there is definitely
an awakening in humanity
as a whole, where
we are allowing
ourselves to see the elements
that are no longer serving us.
And so there's now an
openness to healing.
Ultimately, it's really just
a ritual of recognizing,
these are the issues
that I need to deal with,
and then taking
responsibility for it.
Doesn't matter who caused
it, what the issue was,
or where it stems from.
But it's about me, and
it's about healing myself.
And if each one of
us heals ourself,
we then change the world,
because we're all part of it.
So if you are in
a place where you
would like to explore
more about yourself
and more about your healing,
more about what you can expand,
what you can become,
then I would highly
recommend going for any
healing modality that
resonates with you.
>> Every one of us has
our own path to take.
How we choose to see
it, engage with it
and shape it along
the way, is up to us.
But remember, you are not alone.
There are people all around us.
Healers in every
corner of the Earth.
Arms open, ready to guide you.